Add Hashicorp Nomad Support (#819)
signalfx/splunk-otel-collector: deployments/nomad/README.md

> # Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector on HashiCorp Nomad

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for HashiCorp Nomad
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I agree with this since we aren't providing a fully capable installation path or integration w/ nomad.

> The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for HashiCorp Nomad is orchestrator deployment to create job which provides a unified way to receive, process and export metric, and trace data for [Splunk Observability Cloud](https://www.observability.splunk.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for HashiCorp Nomad is an orchestrator deployment to create a job which provides a unified way to receive, process and export metric, and trace data for [Splunk Observability Cloud](https://www.observability.splunk.com/).
```

> _These job files are provided as a reference only and are not designed for production use._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: Job files are provided as a reference only and are not intended for production use._
```

## Deployment

> To run the job files you will need access to a Nomad cluster and, optionally, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the job files you need:

- Access to a Nomad cluster
```

> Consul cluster as well. You can start a local dev agent for Nomad and Consul by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (Optional) Access to a Consul cluster

To start a local dev agent for Nomad and Consul, download the
```

> downloading the [`nomad`](https://www.nomadproject.io/downloads) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`nomad`](https://www.nomadproject.io/downloads) binary file and
```

> [`consul`](https://www.consul.io/downloads) binary and running the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`consul`](https://www.consul.io/downloads) binary and run the following
```

commands in two different terminals:

```shell-session
$ nomad agent -dev -network-interface='{{ GetPrivateInterfaces | attr "name" }}'
```

```shell-session
$ consul agent -dev
```
### Usage Guide

> To deploy the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector job on the nomad cluster we need to set environment variable in nomad job configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector job on the Nomad cluster we need to set environment variable in Nomad job configuration. 
```

```yaml
env {

>     SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN = "YOUR_SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN = "<SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN>"
```

>     SPLUNK_REALM = "YOUR_SPLUNK_REALM"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SPLUNK_REALM = "<SPLUNK_REALM>"
```

    SPLUNK_MEMORY_TOTAL_MIB = 2048

>     // We can specify more environment variable to override default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // You can specify more environment variables to override default values.
```

}
```

To use your own Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector configuration file, you can specify content in the [template stanza](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/job-specification/template).

```yaml
template {
    data        = <<EOF
// Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector configuration.
EOF
    destination = "local/config/otel-agent-config.yaml"
}

```

### Gateway

The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can run as a `gateway` by registering a
[service](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/schedulers#service) job.

```shell-session
$ nomad run deployments/nomad/otel-gateway.nomad
```

### Agent

The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can run as an `agent` by registering a
[system](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/schedulers#system) job.

```shell-session
$ nomad run deployments/nomad/otel-agent.nomad
```

### Demo

The demo job deploys the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector as `agent` and `gateway`, `load

> generators`, to collect metrics and traces and export them using `SignalFx` exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generators`, to collect metrics and traces and export them using the `SignalFx` exporter.
```

# Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for HashiCorp Nomad

The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for HashiCorp Nomad is an orchestrator deployment to create a job which provides a unified way to receive, process and export metric, and trace data for [Splunk Observability Cloud](https://www.observability.splunk.com/).

> **NOTE**: Job files are provided as a reference only and are not intended for production use._

Reviewer 3: Remove the trailing underscore `_` or add a leading one.

Author: Added

## Deployment

To run the job files you need:

- Access to a Nomad cluster
- (Optional) Access to a Consul cluster

To start a local dev agent for Nomad and Consul, download the
[`nomad`](https://www.nomadproject.io/downloads) binary file and
[`consul`](https://www.consul.io/downloads) binary and run the following
commands in two different terminals:

```shell-session
$ nomad agent -dev -network-interface='{{ GetPrivateInterfaces | attr "name" }}'
```

```shell-session
$ consul agent -dev
```
### Usage Guide

To deploy the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector job on the Nomad cluster we need to set environment variable in Nomad job configuration. 

```yaml
env {
    SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN = "<SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN>"
    SPLUNK_REALM = "<SPLUNK_REALM>"
    SPLUNK_MEMORY_TOTAL_MIB = 2048
    // You can specify more environment variables to override default values.
}
```

To use your own Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector configuration file, you can specify content in the [template stanza](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/job-specification/template).

```yaml
template {
    data        = <<EOF

> // Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector configuration.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest showing extensions, receivers, processors, exporters, and service fields w/ ellipses to demonstrate this is a complete config.

Author: As you suggested I have added a demo config in `README.md` for collecting `host metrics`.

EOF
    destination = "local/config/otel-agent-config.yaml"
}

```

### Gateway

The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can run as a `gateway` by registering a
[service](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/schedulers#service) job.

```shell-session

> $ nomad run deployments/nomad/otel-gateway.nomad

Reviewer 2: Demonstrating that cloning the project is necessary would be helpful.  Is there nomad registry we can publish to?

```

### Agent

The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can run as an `agent` by registering a
[system](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/schedulers#system) job.

```shell-session
$ nomad run deployments/nomad/otel-agent.nomad
```

> ### Demo

Reviewer 2: There is already an examples directory: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples.  Would it make more sense to use leave this as a functioning deployment only and have the additional load generator configuration there that uses it?

To use your own Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector configuration file, you can specify content in the [template stanza](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/job-specification/template).

```yaml
template {
    data        = <<EOF
// Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector configuration.
EOF
    destination = "local/config/otel-agent-config.yaml"
}

```

### Gateway

The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can run as a `gateway` by registering a
[service](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/schedulers#service) job.

```shell-session
$ nomad run deployments/nomad/otel-collector.nomad
```

### Agent

The Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector can run as an `agent` by registering a
[system](https://www.nomadproject.io/docs/schedulers#system) job.

```shell-session
$ nomad run deployments/nomad/otel-agent.nomad
```

### Demo

The demo job deploys the Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector as `agent` and `gateway`, `load
generators`, to collect metrics and traces and export them using `SignalFx` exporter.

```shell-session
$ nomad run deployments/nomad/otel-demo.nomad
```

## Contributing

Check [Contributing guidelines](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/deployments/ansible/contributing/README.md) 

> if you see something that needs to be improved in this Ansible role.

Reviewer 3: This was probably copied from the ansible doc.  Please remove or update it for nomad.

Author: Removed
